DOC-10992 Cloud 2.0 Update Basic Resource Usage page and Request Units metrics page (#18873)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/resource-usage-basic.md

Each query has an associated RU cost, so the total number of queries is an important factor in your consumption.

> To diagnose excessive queries, navigate to your cluster's [**Overview** metrics page]({% link cockroachcloud/metrics-overview.md %}) in the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console. The [**SQL Statements** chart]({% link cockroachcloud/metrics-overview.md %}#sql-statements) displays the number of queries over time. Look for any spikes or increases in QPS (queries per second) that may correspond to increases in the [**Request Units** chart]({% link cockroachcloud/metrics-overview.md %}#request-units).

Author: I am keeping it as `**Overview** metrics page` because it is the type of metrics on the page: "Overview metrics", similar to "SQL metrics" and "Changefeed metrics".

### Excessive number of connections

CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.basic }} clusters consume minimal resources per connection, so increased RU consumption is not likely to be caused by a high number of connections. However, it will be important to manage your connections for both performance optimization and RU consumption as your application scales up.

Maintaining fewer than five active connections is recommended for most workloads. To diagnose excessive connections, navigate to your cluster's [**Overview** metrics page]({% link cockroachcloud/metrics-overview.md %}) in the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console. The [**SQL Connections** chart]({% link cockroachcloud/metrics-overview.md %}#sql-connections) displays new SQL connection attempts over time.

[Connection pooling]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/connection-pooling.md %}) is the recommended way to manage the number of connections for many workloads. To read more about connection pooling, see [What is Connection Pooling, and Why Should You Care](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/what-is-connection-pooling/).

### Excessive data egress

> To diagnose excessive data egress, navigate to your cluster's [**Request Units** metrics page]({% link cockroachcloud/metrics-request-units.md %}) in the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console and monitor the [**Egress** chart]({% link cockroachcloud/metrics-request-units.md %}#egress) for high RU's for client traffic or bulk I/O operations.

Reviewer: I'd change all instances of `RU's` to "RUs". (There are several in this doc.)

Author: good catch. updated

Refer to [Change Data Capture Queries]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/cdc-queries.md %}) for performance guidance that may decrease RU consumption.

## General tips for reducing RU usage

RU consumption can be broken down to more granular components that can give additional optimization insight. Use the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console [**Request Units** metrics]({% link cockroachcloud/metrics-request-units.md %}) charts to see what kind of resource usage is driving RU consumption.

The following recommendations can help minimize the RU cost of a query by reducing the work your cluster must do to execute that query. The tips are grouped according to the type of resource usage.

### Reads

If the [**Reads** chart]({% link cockroachcloud/metrics-request-units.md %}#reads) shows high RU's for batches, requests, or bytes (payload):

- Use [secondary indexes]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/schema-design-indexes.md %}) that reduce the number of rows that need to be scanned.

> - Avoid “wide” columns in tables that are frequently scanned, such as large text or [binary]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/bytes.md %}) columns. Instead, offload them to a separate table that is only accessed when those columns are needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid including columns with long values in tables that are frequently scanned, such as large text or [binary]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/bytes.md %}) columns. Instead, offload them to a separate table that is only accessed when those columns are needed.
```

Author: updated

> - Don't disable [automatic statistics]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#table-statistics), as they are needed to power the [optimizer]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/cost-based-optimizer.md %}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do not disable [automatic statistics]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#table-statistics), as they are needed to power the [optimizer]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/cost-based-optimizer.md %}).
```

per https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/blob/main/StyleGuide.md#style-and-tone

Author: updated

> - Take advantage of SQL [filters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/select-clause.md %}#filter-rows), [joins]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/joins.md %}), and [aggregations]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/select-clause.md %}#aggregate-functions) rather than performing these operations in the application to reduce the amount of data returned to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use SQL [filters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/select-clause.md %}#filter-rows), [joins]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/joins.md %}), and [aggregations]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/select-clause.md %}#aggregate-functions) rather than performing these operations in the application to reduce the amount of data returned to the client.
```

Author: updated

### Cross-region Networking

If the [**Cross-region Networking** chart]({% link cockroachcloud/metrics-request-units.md %}#cross-region-networking) shows high RU's for network traffic:

- For [multi-region clusters]({% link cockroachcloud/plan-your-cluster.md %}#multi-region-clusters), avoid cross-region reads by using features such as [global tables]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/global-tables.md %}), [regional by row tables]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/regional-tables.md %}), and [follower reads]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/follower-reads.md %}) where possible.

### SQL CPU

If the [**CPU** chart]({% link cockroachcloud/metrics-request-units.md %}#cpu) shows high RU's for total amount of CPU used by SQL pods:

- Most of the above tips also apply to reducing SQL CPU.

> - Ensure that frequently executed queries are [“prepared”]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/sql-grammar.md %}#prepare_stmt) so they can be cached by the SQL layer. Most [ORMs and drivers]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/third-party-database-tools.md %}) do this automatically, so it’s usually not a problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure that frequently executed queries are set as prepared statements using [`PREPARE`]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/sql-grammar.md %}#prepare_stmt), so they can be cached by the SQL layer. Most [ORMs and drivers]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/third-party-database-tools.md %}) do this automatically, so it’s usually not a problem.
```

Author: updated
